Here, we found that simple substitution of amino acids in the middle position of the hydrophobic face of an amphipathic peptide RI16 with tryptophan (T9W) considerably transformed into an antimicrobial peptide specifically targeting Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) results demonstrated that T9W had a strong and specifically antimicrobial activity against P. aeruginosa, including antibiotic-resistant strains, but was not active against Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium, Staphylococcus aureus and Staphyfococcus epidermidis. Fluorescent spectroscopic assays indicated that T9W interacted with the membrane of P. aeruginosa, depolarizing the outer and the inner membrane of bacterial cells. Salt susceptibility assay showed that T9W still maintained its strong anti-pseudomonas activity in the presence of salts at physiological concentrations, and in hemolytic and MTT assays T9W also showed no toxicity against human blood cells and macrophages. In vivo assay demonstrated that T9W also displayed no toxicity to Chinese Kun Ming (KM) mice. Furthermore, the strong antibiofilm activity was also observed with the peptide T9W, which decreased the percentage of biomass formation in a dose-dependent manner. Overall, these findings indicated that design of single-pathogen antimicrobial agents can be achieved by simple amino acid mutation in naturally occurring peptide sequences and this study suggested a model of optimization/design of anti-pseudomonas drugs in which the tryptophan residue was a conserved element.Purpose To test if MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd, a gadolinium-based magnetic resonance (MR) imaging probe that is sensitive and specific for the proinflammatory and oxidative enzyme myeloperoxidase ( MPO myeloperoxidase ), which is secreted by certain inflammatory cells, is more sensitive than diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( DTPA diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid )-Gd in revealing early subclinical and chronic disease activity in the brain in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( EAE experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ), a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Materials and Methods The protocol for animal experiments was approved by the institutional animal care committee. A total of 61 female SJL mice were induced with EAE experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis . Mice underwent MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd- or DTPA diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid -Gd-enhanced MR imaging on days 6, 8, and 10 after induction, before clinical disease develops, and during chronic disease at remission and the first relapse. Brains were harvested at these time points for flow cytometric evaluation of immune cell subtypes and immunohistochemistry. Statistical analysis was performed, and P < .05 was considered to indicate a significant difference. Results MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd helps detect earlier (5.2 vs 2.3 days before symptom onset, P = .004) and more (3.1 vs 0.3, P = .008) subclinical inflammatory lesions compared with DTPA diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid -Gd, including in cases in which there was no evidence of overt blood-brain barrier ( BBB blood-brain barrier ) breakdown detected with DTPA diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid -Gd enhancement. The number of MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd-enhancing lesions correlated with early infiltration of MPO myeloperoxidase -secreting monocytes and neutrophils into the brain (r = 0.91). MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd also helped detect more lesions during subclinical disease at remission (5.5 vs 1.3, P = .006) and at the first relapse (9.0 vs 2.7, P = .03) than DTPA diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid -Gd, which also correlated well with the presence and accumulation of MPO myeloperoxidase -secreting inflammatory cells in the brain (r = 0.93). Conclusion MPO myeloperoxidase -Gd specifically reveals lesions with inflammatory monocytes and neutrophils, which actively secrete MPO myeloperoxidase . These results demonstrate the feasibility of detection of subclinical inflammatory disease activity in vivo, which is different from overt BBB blood-brain barrier breakdown. © RSNA, 2014 Online supplemental material is available for this article.Abstract Members of the species Zaire ebolavirus cause severe hemorrhagic fever with up to a 90% mortality rate in humans. The VSVΔG/EBOV GP vaccine has provided 100% protection in the mouse, guinea pig, and nonhuman primate (NHP) models, and has also been utilized as a post-exposure therapeutic to protect mice, guinea pigs, and NHPs from a lethal challenge of Ebola virus (EBOV). EBOV infection causes rapid mortality in human and animal models, with death occurring as early as 6 days after infection, suggesting a vital role for the innate immune system to control the infection before cells of the adaptive immune system can assume control. Natural killer (NK) cells are the predominant cell of the innate immune response, which has been shown to expand with VSVΔG/EBOV GP treatment. In the current study, an in vivo mouse model of the VSVΔG/EBOV GP post-exposure treatment was used for a mouse adapted (MA)-EBOV infection, to determine the putative VSVΔG/EBOV GP-induced protective mechanism of NK cells. NK depletion studies demonstrated that mice with NK cells survive longer in a MA-EBOV infection, which is further enhanced with VSVΔG/EBOV GP treatment. NK cell mediated cytotoxicity and IFN-γ secretion was significantly higher with VSVΔG/EBOV GP treatment. Cell mediated cytotoxicity assays and perforin knockout mice experiments suggest that there are perforin-dependent and -independent mechanisms involved. Together, these data suggest that NK cells play an important role in VSVΔG/EBOV GP-induced protection of EBOV by increasing NK cytotoxicity, and IFN-γ secretion.Abstract In this study, we evaluated the analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities of a 70% ethanol extract from Rosa taiwanensis Nakai (RTEtOH). The analgesic effect was determined using acetic acid-induced writhing response and formalin test. The anti-inflammatory activity was evaluated by λ-carrageenan-induced paw edema in mice. The anti-inflammatory mechanism of RTEtOH was examined by measuring the levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and malondialdehyde (MDA) in the paw edema tissue and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GRd) in the liver tissue. The betulinic acid and oleanolic acid contents of RTEtOH were assayed by HPLC. The results showed that RTEtOH decreased the acetic acid-induced writhing responses (1.0 g/kg) and the late phase of the formalin-induced licking time (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg). In the anti-inflammatory models, RTEtOH (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg) reduced the paw edema at 3, 4, and 5 h after λ-carrageenan administration. Moreover, the anti-inflammatory mechanisms might be due to the decreased levels of COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, as well as the inhibition of NO and MDA levels through increasing the activities of SOD, GPx, and GRd. The contents of two active compounds, betulinic acid and oleanolic acid, were quantitatively determined. This study demonstrated the analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities of RTEtOH and provided evidence to support its therapeutic use in inflammatory diseases.Traumatic brain injury (TBI)-induced cerebral inflammation involves several mediators including activation of resident microglia, infiltration of leukocytes, and release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines at the site of injury. Invading leukocytes, mainly neutrophil and inflammatory monocytes, contribute to ongoing post-TBI cerebral edema and neuronal injury. Based on the beneficial effect of ghrelin hormone treatment following TBI, we hypothesized that ghrelin may alter the infiltrating inflammatory cell profile.A weight drop model was used to create severe TBI. C57 mice were divided into three groups: sham, no TBI or ghrelin treatment; TBI, TBI only; TBI/ghrelin, animals were treated with ghrelin 20 μg (intraperitoneally) immediately following TBI and again 1 hour later. Seven days after injury, brain sections were immunostained with Iba-1 and CD11b to assess the recruitment and activation of resident microglia and infiltrated leukocytes. Alternatively, brain dissociates were isolated, and flow cytometry was used to gate for microglia (CD11b, CD45 cells), monocytes (CD11b, CD45, F4/80 cells), and neutrophils (CD11b, CD45, F4/80 cells) to measure their recruitment to injury site.TBI resulted in a rapid invasion (16-fold) of inflammatory leukocytes to the site of injury, which persisted for at least 1 week. Ghrelin treatment significantly reduced infiltration of peripheral leukocytes (2.8-fold). In particular, recruitment of CD11bCD45 inflammatory monocytes (2.4-fold) and CD11bCD45F4/80 neutrophils (1.7-fold) was reduced following ghrelin treatment. There were no observed ghrelin-mediated changes in either the number of CD11bCD45 resident microglia or its activation state.Together, our data demonstrate that ghrelin attenuated leukocyte recruitment, which correlates with improved histologic outcome following TBI.Tobacco addiction represents one of the largest public health problems in the world and is the leading cause of cancer and heart disease, resulting in millions of deaths a year. Vaccines for smoking cessation have shown considerable promise in preclinical models, although functional antibody responses induced in humans are only modestly effective in preventing nicotine entry into the brain. The challenge in generating serum antibodies with a large nicotine binding capacity is made difficult by the fact that this drug is non-immunogenic and must be conjugated as a hapten to a protein carrier. To circumvent the limitations of traditional carriers like keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), we have synthesized a short trimeric coiled-coil peptide (TCC) that creates a series of B and T cell epitopes with uniform stoichiometry and high density. Here we compared the relative activities of a TCC-nic vaccine and two control KLH-nic vaccines using Alum as an adjuvant or GLA-SE, which contains a synthetic TLR4 agonist formulated in a stable oil-in-water emulsion. The results showed that the TCC's high hapten density correlated with a better immune response in mice as measured by anti-nicotine Ab titer, affinity, and specificity, and was responsible for a reduction in anti-carrier immunogenicity. The Ab responses achieved with this synthetic vaccine resulted in a nicotine binding capacity in serum that could prevent >90% of a nicotine dose equivalent to three smoked cigarettes (0.05 mg/kg) from reaching the brain.Physical activity counters anxiety and stress; a recent study in mice uncovers a molecular pathway that underlies this phenomenon.Calcitriol, a powerful regulator of phosphate metabolism and immune response, is generated by 25-hydroxyvitamin D 1α-hydroxylase in the kidney and macrophages. Renal 1α-hydroxylase expression is suppressed by Klotho and FGF23, the expression of which is stimulated by calcitriol. Interferon γ (INFγ) regulates 1α-hydroxylase expression in macrophages through transcription factor interferon regulatory factor-1. INFγ-signaling includes Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) but a role of JAK3 in the regulation of 1α-hydroxylase expression and mineral metabolism has not been shown. Thus, the impact of JAK3 deficiency on calcitriol formation and phosphate metabolism was measured. Renal interferon regulatory factor-1 and 1α-hydroxylase transcript levels, serum calcitriol and FGF23 levels, intestinal phosphate absorption as well as absolute and fractional renal phosphate excretion were significantly higher in jak3 knockout than in wild-type mice. Coexpression of JAK3 increased the phosphate-induced current in renal sodium-phosphate cotransporter-expressing Xenopus oocytes. Thus, JAK3 is a powerful regulator of 1α-hydroxylase expression and phosphate transport. Its deficiency leads to marked derangement of phosphate metabolism.Kidney International advance online publication, 10 December 2014; doi:10.1038/ki.2014.371.Although Th1 and Th2 cytokines can inhibit interleukin (IL)-17-secreting T cells, how these cells are regulated under different infectious conditions is still debated. Our previous studies have shown that vaccination of IL-4 and IL-13 gene knockout (KO) mice can induce high-avidity HIV KdGag197-205-specific CD8 T cells with better protective efficacy. In this study, when IL-13, IL-4, STAT6 KO, and wild-type BALB/c mice were prime-boost immunized with an HIV poxviral modality, elevated numbers of IL-17A+ splenic KdGag197-205-specific CD8 T cells were observed in all the KO mice compared with the wt BALB/c control. Similarly, when wt BALB/c mice were immunized with IL-13Rα2-adjuvanted HIV vaccines (that transiently inhibited IL-13 activity and induced high-avidity CD8 T cells with enhanced protective efficacy), elevated IL-17A+ KdGag197-205-specific CD8 T cells were detected both in the lung and the spleen. However, at the transcriptional level, elevated TGF-β, IL-6, ROR-γt, and IL-17A mRNA copy numbers were mainly detected in IL-4 KO, but not the IL-13 KO mice. These data suggested that TGF-β, IL-6, ROR-γt, but not IL-23a, played a role in IL-17A regulation in KdGag197-205-specific CD8 T cells. Collectively, our findings suggest that IL-4 and IL-13 differentially regulate the expression of IL-17A in KdGag197-205-specific CD8 T cells at the transcriptional and translational level, respectively, implicating IL-17A as an indirect modulator of CD8 T cell avidity and protective immunity.Sodium bisulfite (NaHSO3) was clinically used as a preservative agent for local anesthetics but was later suspected to be neurotoxic. However, recent studies reported that NaHSO3 reduces the neurotoxicity of local anesthetics. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of NaHSO3 with and without procaine on axonal transport in cultured mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons.Experiment 1 served to determine the dose-dependent effects of NaHSO3 on axonal transport (DRG neurons were treated with 0.01, 0.1, 1, 10, or 20 mM of NaHSO3), whereas experiment 2 investigated the effect of 0.1 mM NaHSO3 on the action of local anesthetics on axonal transport (DRG neurons were treated with 1 mM procaine alone, or with 0.1 mM NaHSO3 plus 1 mM procaine). As an additional experiment, DRG neurons were also treated with 1 mM chloroprocaine alone, or with 0.1 mM NaHSO3 plus 1 mM chloroprocaine. In these experiments, we analyzed the percent change in the number of anterogradely and retrogradely transported organelles and recorded changes in neurite morphology using video-enhanced microscopy.In experiment 1, NaHSO3 at more than 1 mM caused cell membrane damage and complete inhibition of axonal transport, whereas 0.1 mM NaHSO3 maintained axonal transport at 40% to 60% of control with intact cell membrane. In experiment 2, 1 mM procaine alone maintained axonal transport at 90% to 100%. However, application of 1 mM procaine-0.1 mM NaHSO3 solution resulted in deformation of neurites and with complete cessation of axonal transport. Likewise, although 1 mM chloroprocaine maintain axonal transport at 80% to 100%, 1 mM chloroprocaine-0.1 mM NaHSO3 arrested axonal transport.NaHSO3 resulted in a dose-dependent damage to the cell membrane and axonal transport, especially when used in combination with procaine or chloroprocaine.A large number of γδ T cells are located within epithelial tissues including the skin. In mice, epidermal and dermal γδ T cells consist of distinct subsets and play specific roles in cutaneous immune responses. A recent study demonstrated that γδ T cells and cutaneous dendritic cells migrate from the skin to the draining lymph nodes (LNs). However, it remains unclear whether they regulate the antigen-specific immune response within the LNs. Herein, we investigated their properties and role in the LNs using the Mycobacterium bovis bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) infection model. In vivo cell labeling analysis revealed that the most of migratory subset was dermal Vγ4+ cells. This population transmigrated from the skin to the LNs in a Gi-coupled chemokine receptor-independent manner. By depleting Vγ4+ cells, the intranodal expansion of CD8+ T cell against BCG was significantly attenuated. In addition, in vitro analysis revealed that Vγ4+ cells produced TNF-α and enhanced IL-12 production by dendritic cells. Taken together, these findings suggest that dermal Vγ4+ cells are a unique subset that possesses a migratory potency to the skin-draining LNs and enhances the dendritic cell function therein.Journal of Investigative Dermatology accepted article preview online, 10 December 2014. doi:10.1038/jid.2014.516.Kit is a receptor-type tyrosine kinase found on the plasma membrane. It can transform mast cells through activating mutations. Here, we show that a mutant Kit from neoplastic mast cells from mice, Kit(D814Y), is permanently active and allows cells to proliferate autonomously. It does so by activating two signalling pathways from different intracellular compartments. Mutant Kit from the cell surface accumulates on endolysosomes through clathrin-mediated endocytosis, which requires Kit's kinase activity. Kit(D814Y) is constitutively associated with phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, but the complex activates Akt only on the cytoplasmic surface of endolysosomes. It resists destruction because it is under-ubiquitinated. Kit(D814Y) also appears in the endoplasmic reticulum soon after biosynthesis, and there, can activate STAT5 aberrantly. These mechanisms of oncogenic signalling are also seen in rat and human mast cell leukemia cells. Thus, oncogenic Kit signalling occurs from different intracellular compartments, and the mutation acts by altering Kit trafficking as well as activation.We recently demonstrated that the secreted glycoprotein and integrin-ligand MFG-E8 promotes cutaneous wound healing by enhancing angiogenesis. Several studies have identified potential roles for MFG-E8 in regulation of ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in brain, kidney and liver. Our objective was to assess the role of MFG-E8 in the formation of skin ulcers using a murine model of cutaneous I/R injury-cutaneous pressure ulcers. Cutaneous I/R was performed by trapping dorsal skin between two magnetic plates for 12 h, followed by plate removal. Expression of MFG-E8 increased in the dermis during ischemia, and then decreased after reperfusion. Administration of recombinant (r)MFG-E8 in I/R areas at the beginning of reperfusion significantly inhibited the formation of cutaneous pressure ulcers, and the number of CD31+ vessel and NG2+ pericytes in wounds were increased in I/R mice treated with rMFG-E8. Numbers of M1 macrophages and the amount of proinflammatory mediators, MCP-1, iNOS, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-1β in wound area were reduced by administration of rMFG-E8. We conclude that MFG-E8 may inhibit the formation of pressure ulcers induced by cutaneous I/R injury by regulating angiogenesis and inflammation. Exogenous application of MFG-E8 might have therapeutic potential for cutaneous I/R injuries, including decubitus ulcers and Raynaud's phenomenon-induced digital ulcers.Journal of Investigative Dermatology accepted article preview online, 10 December 2014. doi:10.1038/jid.2014.515.Natural products represent a rich reservoir of potential small chemical molecules exhibiting anti-proliferative and chemopreventive properties. Here, we show that treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells (PANC-1, MiaPaCa-2) with the isoquinoline alkaloid berberine (0.3-6 µM) inhibited DNA synthesis and proliferation of these cells and delay the progression of their cell cycle in G1. Berberine treatment also reduced (by 70%) the growth of MiaPaCa-2 cell growth when implanted into the flanks of nu/nu mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that berberine decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and intracellular ATP levels and induced potent AMPK activation, as shown by phosphorylation of AMPK α subunit at Thr-172 and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) at Ser79. Furthermore, berberine dose-dependently inhibited mTORC1 (phosphorylation of S6K at Thr389 and S6 at Ser240/244) and ERK activation in PDAC cells stimulated by insulin and neurotensin or fetal bovine serum. Knockdown of α1 and α2 catalytic subunit expression of AMPK reversed the inhibitory effect produced by treatment with low concentrations of berberine on mTORC1, ERK and DNA synthesis in PDAC cells. However, at higher concentrations, berberine inhibited mitogenic signaling (mTORC1 and ERK) and DNA synthesis through an AMPK-independent mechanism. Similar results were obtained with metformin used at doses that induced either modest or pronounced reductions in intracellular ATP levels, which were virtually identical to the decreases in ATP levels obtained in response to berberine. We propose that berberine and metformin inhibit mitogenic signaling in PDAC cells through dose-dependent AMPK-dependent and independent pathways.Patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) are treated today with a cocktail of drugs referred to as CHOP (Cyclophosphamide, Hydroxyldaunorubicin, Oncovin, and Prednisone). Subsets of patients with NHL of germinal center origin bear oncogenic mutations in the EZH2 histone methyltransferase. Clinical testing of the EZH2 inhibitor EPZ-6438 has recently begun in patients. We report here that combining EPZ-6438 with CHOP in preclinical cell culture and mouse models results in dramatic synergy for cell killing in EZH2 mutant germinal center NHL cells. Surprisingly, we observe that much of this synergy is due to Prednisolone - a glucocorticoid receptor agonist (GRag) component of CHOP. Dramatic synergy was observed when EPZ-6438 is combined with Prednisolone alone, and a similar effect was observed with Dexamethasone, another GRag. Remarkably, the anti-proliferative effect of the EPZ-6438+GRag combination extends beyond EZH2 mutant-bearing cells to more generally impact germinal center NHL. These preclinical data reveal an unanticipated biological intersection between GR-mediated gene regulation and EZH2-mediated chromatin remodeling. The data also suggest the possibility of a significant and practical benefit of combining EZH2 inhibitors and GRag that warrants further investigation in a clinical setting.Wnt signaling regulates self-renewal and fate commitment of stem and progenitor cells in development and homeostasis. Leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (Lgr5) is a co-receptor for Wnt signaling that marks highly proliferative stem and progenitor cells in many epithelial tissue types. Wnt signaling instructs neural developmental and homeostatic processes; however, Lgr5 expression in the developing and adult brain has not been characterized. Here we report that Lgr5 is expressed in the postnatal cerebellum during the maturation and synaptogenesis of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs), processes controlled by Wnt signaling. Using a transgenic reporter mouse for in vivo Lgr5 expression analysis and lineage tracing, we reveal that Lgr5 specifically identified CGNs and was restricted temporally to the CGN maturation phase within the internal granule layer, but absent in the adult brain. Cells marked by Lgr5 were lineage restricted, post-mitotic and long-lived. The ligand for Lgr5, R-spondin, was secreted in a paracrine fashion that evolved during the maturation of CGNs, which coincided with the Lgr5 expression pattern. Our findings provide potential new insight into the critical regulation of Wnt signaling in the developing cerebellum and support a novel role for Lgr5 in the regulation of post-mitotic cells.The chemical composition, anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic and antioxidant activities of essential oil from leaves of Mentha piperita (MEO) grown in China were investigated. Using GC-MS analysis, the chemical composition of MEO was characterized, showing that it was mainly composed of menthol, menthone and menthy acetate. MEO exhibited potent anti-inflammatory activities in a croton oil-induced mouse ear edema model. It could also effectively inhibit nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW 264.7 macrophages. The cytotoxic effect was assessed against four human cancer cells. MEO was found to be significantly active against human lung carcinoma SPC-A1, human leukemia K562 and human gastric cancer SGC-7901 cells, with an IC50 value of 10.89, 16.16 and 38.76 µg/ml, respectively. In addition, MEO had moderate antioxidant activity. The results of this study may provide an experimental basis for further systematic research, rational development and clinical utilization of peppermint resources.Orthotopic models of various types of tumors are widely used in anti-tumor therapeutic experiments in preclinical studies. However, there are few ways to appropriately monitor therapeutic effect in orthotopic tumor models, especially for tumors invisible from the outside. In this study we aimed to establish a non-invasive semi-quantitative bioluminescent imaging method of monitoring an orthotopic esophageal cancer mouse model. We confirmed that the TE8 esophageal cancer cell line implanted orthotopically into the abdominal esophagus of nu/nu mice (n = 5) developed not only a main tumor at the implanted site, but also local lymph node metastases and peritoneal disseminations within 6 weeks after inoculation. We established a TE8 cell line that stably expressed the firefly luciferase gene (TE8-Luc). We showed that TE8-Luc cells implanted subcutaneously into nu/nu mice (n = 5) grew over time until 5 weeks after inoculation. Tumor volume was strongly correlated with luminescent intensity emitted from the tumor, which was quantified using the IVIS imaging system. We then showed that TE8-Luc cells implanted orthotopically into the mouse abdominal esophagus (n = 8) also formed a tumor and that the luminescent intensity of such a tumor, as detected by IVIS, increased over time until 7 weeks after inoculation and was therefore likely to reflect tumor progression. We therefore propose that this orthotopic esophageal cancer model, monitored using the non-invasive semi-quantitative IVIS imaging system, will be useful for in vivo therapeutic experiments against esophageal cancer. This experimental setting is expected to contribute to the development of novel therapeutic technologies for esophageal cancer in preclinical studies.Hoodia gordonii is a plant species used traditionally in southern Africa to suppress appetite. Recently, it has been associated with a significant increase in blood pressure and pulse rate in women, suggesting sympathomimetic activity. The present study investigated the possible antidepressant-like effects of acute and repeated (15 days) administration of H. gordonii extract (25 and 50 mg/kg, po) to mice exposed to a forced swimming test (FST). Neurochemical analysis of brain monoamines was also carried out to determine the involvement of the monoaminergic system on these effects. Acute administration of H. gordonii decreased the immobility of mice in the FST without accompanying changes in general activity in the open-field test during acute treatment, suggesting an antidepressant-like effect. The anti-immobility effect of H. gordonii was prevented by pretreatment of mice with PCPA [an inhibitor of serotonin (5-HT) synthesis], NAN-190 (a 5-HT1A antagonist), ritanserin (a 5-HT2A/2C antagonist), ondansetron (a 5-HT3A antagonist), prazosin (an α1-adrenoceptor antagonist), SCH23390 (a D1 receptor antagonist), yohimbine (an α2-adrenoceptor antagonist), and sulpiride (a D2 receptor antagonist). A significant increase in 5-HT levels in the striatum was detected after acute administration, while 5-HT, norepinephrine and dopamine were significantly elevated after chronic treatment. Results indicated that H. gordonii possesses antidepressant-like activity in the FST by altering the dopaminergic, serotonergic, and noradrenergic systems.The photothermal response of plasmonic nanomaterials can be exploited for a number of biomedical applications in diagnostics (biosensing and optoacoustic imaging) and therapy (drug delivery and photothermal therapy). The most common cellular response to photothermal cancer treatment (ablation of solid tumors) using plasmonic nanomaterials is necrosis, a process that releases intracellular constituents into the extracellular milieu producing detrimental inflammatory responses. Here we report the use of laser-induced photothermal therapy employing gold nanoprisms (NPRs) to specifically induce apoptosis in mouse embryonic fibroblast cells transformed with the SV40 virus. Laser-irradiated "hot" NPRs activate the intrinsic/mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis (programmed cell death), which is mediated by the nuclear-encoded proteins Bak and Bax through the activation of the BH3-only protein Bid. We confirm that an apoptosis mechanism is responsible by showing how the NPR-mediated cell death is dependent on the presence of caspase-9 and caspase-3 proteins. The ability to selectively induce apoptotic cell death and to understand the subsequent mechanisms provides the foundations to predict and optimize NP-based photothermal therapy to treat cancer patients suffering from chemo- and radio-resistance.